en/index.md, before:

# Stride documentation

Welcome to the Stride documentation, specifically designed for game developers, visual creators, and all users of the powerful [Stride game engine](https://www.stride3d.net/). This resource is packed with detailed tutorials, in-depth manuals, and comprehensive API references to help you bring your game development visions to life with Stride. Whether you're new to Stride or looking to hone your skills, you'll find everything you need right here. Dive in, and let's create something extraordinary!

<div class="row g-4 mb-4">
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">📚 Manual</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Discover how to build projects and complete tasks in Stride with our manual-related step-by-step tutorials.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="manual/index.md">Access our Stride Manual</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🎓 Tutorials</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Explore a range of tutorials for the Stride game engine. Our current tutorials include: <a href="tutorials/gamestudio/index.md">Game Studio</a>, <a href="tutorials/csharpbeginner/index.md">C# Beginner</a> and <a href="tutorials/csharpintermediate/index.md">C# Intermediate</a>.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="" href="tutorials/index.md">Browse Stride Tutorials</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">📝 Release Notes</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Learn about the latest features and improvements in Stride, as well as previous versions.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="ReleaseNotes/index.md">Find Stride Release Notes</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🌟 Contributors</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Learn how you can contribute to Stride's development.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="contributors/ways-to-contribute.md">Start contributing to Stride</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🔧 API Reference</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Access Stride's API documentation, which covers methods, properties, and other essential information.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="api/index.md">View Stride API Reference</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that while our English documentation is actively updated, translations may not always be current. We recommend English-literate users to refer to the original for the latest information. To help with translations or report discrepancies, please see our GitHub or community forums. Your input is invaluable!

Commit message:

feat: Download links added to Docs home

en/index.md, after:

# Stride documentation

Welcome to the Stride documentation, specifically designed for game developers, visual creators, and all users of the powerful [Stride game engine](https://www.stride3d.net/). This resource is packed with detailed tutorials, in-depth manuals, and comprehensive API references to help you bring your game development visions to life with Stride. Whether you're new to Stride or looking to hone your skills, you'll find everything you need right here. Dive in, and let's create something extraordinary!

<div class="row g-4 mb-4">
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">📚 Manual</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Discover how to build projects and complete tasks in Stride with our manual-related step-by-step tutorials.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="manual/index.md">Access our Stride Manual</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🎓 Tutorials</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Explore a range of tutorials for the Stride game engine. Our current tutorials include: <a href="tutorials/gamestudio/index.md">Game Studio</a>, <a href="tutorials/csharpbeginner/index.md">C# Beginner</a> and <a href="tutorials/csharpintermediate/index.md">C# Intermediate</a>.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="" href="tutorials/index.md">Browse Stride Tutorials</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">📝 Release Notes</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Learn about the latest features and improvements in Stride, as well as previous versions.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="ReleaseNotes/index.md">Find Stride Release Notes</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🌟 Contributors</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Learn how you can contribute to Stride's development.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="contributors/ways-to-contribute.md">Start contributing to Stride</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="card h-100">
            <div class="card-body">
                <h2 class="card-title h5">🔧 API Reference</h2>
                <p class="card-text">Access Stride's API documentation, which covers methods, properties, and other essential information.</p>
            </div>
            <p class="px-3 mb-4"><a class="stretched-link" href="api/index.md">View Stride API Reference</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

## 📥 Download PDF Versions

You can download PDF versions of various Stride documentation sections:

- [Stride Manual](manual/stride-manual.pdf): (File size: 82MB)
- [Stride Tutorials](tutorials/stride-tutorials.pdf): (File size: 13MB)
- [Contributing to Stride](contributors/contributing-in-stride.pdf): (File size: 8MB)

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that while our English documentation is actively updated, translations may not always be current. We recommend English-literate users to refer to the original for the latest information. To help with translations or report discrepancies, please see our GitHub or community forums. Your input is invaluable!
