README.md, before:

# Stride Docs Development

Welcome to the Stride Docs repository. This repository contains all the source files for the Stride documentation http://doc.stride3d.net/.

* [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
* [Contributing](#-contributing)
* [Roadmap](#%EF%B8%8F-roadmap)
* [.NET Foundation](#-net-foundation)
* [License](#%EF%B8%8Flicense)

## 🚀 Getting Started

All the information you need to get started with Stride Docs development can be found in the 📚 [Stride Docs Wiki](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/wiki).

## 🤝 Contributing

Use [Discord](https://discord.gg/f6aerfE) for questions and general discussions. 
Use [Issues](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/issues) to report bugs and proposing features.

We welcome code contributions through pull requests. Issues tagged as **[`help-wanted`](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-website/labels/help-wanted)** are good candidates for starting to contribute code.

### Branch and Release

The `master` branch is the default branch for pull requests and most other development activities. 

Releases are based on a stable `master` branch. Use of [Conventional Commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) is encouraged.

Stride Docs website is _not_ released under a regular cadence; new updates arrive when maintainers fix issues or see enough changes that warrant a new releases.

### Staging

The staging website allows us to test new features and significant changes before their official release.

The staging website is available at https://stride-doc-staging.azurewebsites.net/

## 🗺️ Roadmap

Our Wiki [Roadmap](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/wiki/Roadmap) communicates upcoming changes to the Stride Docs.

## 🌐 .NET Foundation

This project is supported by the [.NET Foundation](http://www.dotnetfoundation.org).

This project has adopted the code of conduct defined by the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org/) to clarify expected behavior in our community.
For more information see the [.NET Foundation Code of Conduct](http://www.dotnetfoundation.org/code-of-conduct).

## 🛡️License

This project is licensed under the [MIT](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/blob/master/LICENSE.md) License.

## Post-Release Features
- Dark Theme by Default

## Past Content - ToDo: Review

Anyone is welcome to contribute! Before you start, please take the time to read the [guidelines](GUIDELINES.md). 

You can find basic information about editing the documentation in [Getting Started](GETTINGSTARTED.md) dedicated page.

Don't forget to change `$version` in [deploy.ps1](build/deploy.ps1) when branching before first deployment.

### Manage multiple Stride versions

Each Stride minor version (i.e. 4.0, 4.1, etc.) should have its own branch, named in the fashion `master-<version>`. The only exception is latest version, which should be `master`.

Commit message:

feat: Readmi updated with Stride Docs Landscape section and old content removed

README.md, after:

# Stride Docs Development

Welcome to the Stride Docs repository. This repository contains all the source files for the Stride documentation http://doc.stride3d.net/.

* [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
* [Contributing](#-contributing)
* [Roadmap](#%EF%B8%8F-roadmap)
* [.NET Foundation](#-net-foundation)
* [License](#%EF%B8%8Flicense)

## 🚀 Getting Started

All the information you need to get started with Stride Docs development can be found in the 📚 [Stride Docs Wiki](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/wiki).

## 🤝 Contributing

Use [Discord](https://discord.gg/f6aerfE) for questions and general discussions. 
Use [Issues](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/issues) to report bugs and proposing features.

We welcome code contributions through pull requests. Issues tagged as **[`help-wanted`](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-website/labels/help-wanted)** are good candidates for starting to contribute code.

### Branch and Release

The `master` branch is the default branch for pull requests and most other development activities. 

Releases are based on a stable `master` branch. Use of [Conventional Commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) is encouraged.

Stride Docs website is _not_ released under a regular cadence; new updates arrive when maintainers fix issues or see enough changes that warrant a new releases.

### Staging

The staging website allows us to test new features and significant changes before their official release.

The staging website is available at https://stride-doc-staging.azurewebsites.net/

## 🗺️ Roadmap

Our Wiki [Roadmap](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/wiki/Roadmap) communicates upcoming changes to the Stride Docs.

## 📖 Stride Documentation Landscape

The Stride documentation landscape is organized across different repositories and their respective wikis to cater to both users and contributors. Here's how it's structured:

1. [Stride Website](https://www.stride3d.net/) - Stride's official site showcasing its free, open-source 2D and 3D game engine, alongside blog posts
   - [Stride Website Wiki](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-website/wiki) - This wiki serves as a comprehensive guide for those looking to contribute to or develop the Stride Website
1. [Stride Docs](https://doc.stride3d.net/) - Here you'll find Stride's documentation, including manuals, tutorials, and API references
   - [Stride Docs Wiki](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/wiki) - This wiki is a comprehensive guide for individuals interested in contributing to or developing the Stride Docs
1. [Stride Wiki](https://github.com/stride3d/stride/wiki) - A thorough guide for those who wish to contribute to or develop Stride game engine  

## 🌐 .NET Foundation

This project is supported by the [.NET Foundation](http://www.dotnetfoundation.org).

This project has adopted the code of conduct defined by the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org/) to clarify expected behavior in our community.
For more information see the [.NET Foundation Code of Conduct](http://www.dotnetfoundation.org/code-of-conduct).

## 🛡️License

This project is licensed under the [MIT](https://github.com/stride3d/stride-docs/blob/master/LICENSE.md) License.
