en/tutorials/csharpbeginner/index.md, before:

# C# Beginner
These tutorials cover the beginner principles of using C# when working with the Stride game engine. Start here if you are new to Stride or programming. Although having some coding experience is useful, it is not mandatory to get started with these tutorials. You can create the C# beginner tutorial project by starting the Stride launcher. Create a new project and select the template: Tutorials -> C# beginner. Every single scene is loaded as a child scene and demonstrates a sample script. 

![Editor properties](media/csharp_beginner_tutorial_template.jpg)

# All tutorials 
<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Getting the Entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Getting the Entity tutorial](media/getting-the-entity_thumb.png "Getting the Entity") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>

        <ul>
            <li>Retrieve the entity</li> 
            <li>Retrieve the parent</li> 
            <li>Print debug text</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](entity.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Child entities</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Child entities tutorial](media/child-entities_thumb.png "Child entities") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Get a specific child entity</li> 
            <li>Get children in a list</li> 
            <li>Get children of children</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](child-entities.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>The transform</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![The transform tutorial](media/transform-position_thumb.png "The transform") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Accessing the Transform component</li> 
            <li>Get the local position</li> 
            <li>Get the world position</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](transform-position.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Editor properties</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Editor properties tutorial](media/editor-properties_thumb.png "Editor properties")  
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Defining various editor properties</li> 
            <li>Defining lists</li> 
            <li>Hiding public properties</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](editor-properties.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Getting a component</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>   
        ![Get a component tutorial](media/getting-a-component_thumb.png "Get a component")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Getting a component</li> 
            <li>Remove a component</li> 
            <li>Access methods of other components</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](get-component.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Adding a component</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Add a component tutorial](media/adding-a-component_thumb.png "Add a component")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Adding a component</li> 
            <li>Removing all components of 1 type</li> 
            <li>Create a component if it doesn't exists</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](add-component.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Delta time</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Delta time tutorial](media/deltatime_thumb.png "Delta time")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Retrieving delta time</li> 
            <li>Making a simple timer</li> 
            <li>Making a simple countdown timer</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](delta-time.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Cloning an entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Cloning an entity tutorial](media/cloning-entities_thumb.png "Cloning an entity")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Cloning an entity</li> 
            <li>Adding an entity to the current scene</li> 
            <li>Adding an entity as a child to a parent entity</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](cloning-entities.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Removing an entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Removing an entity tutorial](media/removing-entity_thumb.png "Removing an entity")   
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Cloning new entities using a timer</li> 
            <li>Removing entities using a timer</li> 
            <li>Removing an entity from the scene</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](removing-entities.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Keyboard input</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Keyboard input tutorial](media/keyboard-input_thumb.png "Keyboard input tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Holding down a key</li> 
            <li>Clicking a key</li> 
            <li>Releasing a key</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](keyboard-input.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Mouse input</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'> 
        ![Mouse input tutorial](media/mouse-input_thumb.png "Mouse input tutorial")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Holding down a mouse button</li> 
            <li>Clicking or releasing a mouse button</li> 
            
            <li>Using the mouse wheel </li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](mouse-input.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Virtual buttons</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Virtual buttons tutorial](media/virtual-buttons_thumb.png "Virtual buttons tutorial")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Defining a virtual key configuration</li> 
            <li>Binding input to the configuration</li> 
            <li>Using the virtual buttons</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](virtual-buttons.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Linear Interpolation</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Linear Interpolation tutorial](media/lerp_thumb.png "Linear Interpolation tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Calculating 'lerp' value</li> 
            <li>Lerp between vector 3</li> 
            <li>Random values</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](linear-interpolation.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Loading content</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Loading content tutorial](media/loading-content_thumb.png "Loading content tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Loading content from code</li> 
            <li>Unloading content</li> 
            <li>Attach models to entities</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](loading-content.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Instantiating prefabs</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Instantiating prefabs tutorial](media/instantiating-prefabs_thumb.png "Instantiating prefabs tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Instantiate prefab</li> 
            <li>Load prefab from content</li> 
            <li>Parent prefab entity</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](instantiating-prefabs.md) 
</div>

Commit message:

link to youtube tutorial course

en/tutorials/csharpbeginner/index.md, after:

# C# Beginner
These tutorials cover the beginner principles of using C# when working with the Stride game engine. Start here if you are new to Stride or programming. Although having some coding experience is useful, it is not mandatory to get started with these tutorials. You can create the C# beginner tutorial project by starting the Stride launcher. Create a new project and select the template: Tutorials -> C# beginner. Every single scene is loaded as a child scene and demonstrates a sample script. 

![Editor properties](media/csharp_beginner_tutorial_template.jpg)

## Youtube Tutorial Series
There is a YouTube series covering this CSharpBeginner course.  It is a great companion and may be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2kUQhSmdr0&list=PLRZx2y7uC8mNySUMfOQf-TLNVnnHkLfPi

# All tutorials 
<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Getting the Entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Getting the Entity tutorial](media/getting-the-entity_thumb.png "Getting the Entity") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>

        <ul>
            <li>Retrieve the entity</li> 
            <li>Retrieve the parent</li> 
            <li>Print debug text</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](entity.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Child entities</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Child entities tutorial](media/child-entities_thumb.png "Child entities") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Get a specific child entity</li> 
            <li>Get children in a list</li> 
            <li>Get children of children</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](child-entities.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>The transform</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![The transform tutorial](media/transform-position_thumb.png "The transform") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Accessing the Transform component</li> 
            <li>Get the local position</li> 
            <li>Get the world position</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](transform-position.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Editor properties</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Editor properties tutorial](media/editor-properties_thumb.png "Editor properties")  
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Defining various editor properties</li> 
            <li>Defining lists</li> 
            <li>Hiding public properties</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](editor-properties.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Getting a component</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>   
        ![Get a component tutorial](media/getting-a-component_thumb.png "Get a component")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Getting a component</li> 
            <li>Remove a component</li> 
            <li>Access methods of other components</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](get-component.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Adding a component</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Add a component tutorial](media/adding-a-component_thumb.png "Add a component")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Adding a component</li> 
            <li>Removing all components of 1 type</li> 
            <li>Create a component if it doesn't exists</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](add-component.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Delta time</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Delta time tutorial](media/deltatime_thumb.png "Delta time")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Retrieving delta time</li> 
            <li>Making a simple timer</li> 
            <li>Making a simple countdown timer</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](delta-time.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Cloning an entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Cloning an entity tutorial](media/cloning-entities_thumb.png "Cloning an entity")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Cloning an entity</li> 
            <li>Adding an entity to the current scene</li> 
            <li>Adding an entity as a child to a parent entity</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](cloning-entities.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Removing an entity</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Removing an entity tutorial](media/removing-entity_thumb.png "Removing an entity")   
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Cloning new entities using a timer</li> 
            <li>Removing entities using a timer</li> 
            <li>Removing an entity from the scene</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](removing-entities.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Keyboard input</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Keyboard input tutorial](media/keyboard-input_thumb.png "Keyboard input tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Holding down a key</li> 
            <li>Clicking a key</li> 
            <li>Releasing a key</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](keyboard-input.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Mouse input</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'> 
        ![Mouse input tutorial](media/mouse-input_thumb.png "Mouse input tutorial")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Holding down a mouse button</li> 
            <li>Clicking or releasing a mouse button</li> 
            
            <li>Using the mouse wheel </li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](mouse-input.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'>
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Virtual buttons</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Virtual buttons tutorial](media/virtual-buttons_thumb.png "Virtual buttons tutorial")
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Defining a virtual key configuration</li> 
            <li>Binding input to the configuration</li> 
            <li>Using the virtual buttons</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](virtual-buttons.md) 
</div>


<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Linear Interpolation</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Linear Interpolation tutorial](media/lerp_thumb.png "Linear Interpolation tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Calculating 'lerp' value</li> 
            <li>Lerp between vector 3</li> 
            <li>Random values</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](linear-interpolation.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Loading content</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Loading content tutorial](media/loading-content_thumb.png "Loading content tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Loading content from code</li> 
            <li>Unloading content</li> 
            <li>Attach models to entities</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](loading-content.md) 
</div>

<div class='tutorial'> 
    [
    <div class='tutorial_title'>
       <h2>Instantiating prefabs</h2>
    </div>
    <div class='stride-documentation-image'>
        ![Instantiating prefabs tutorial](media/instantiating-prefabs_thumb.png "Instantiating prefabs tutorial") 
    </div>
    <div class='tutorial_description'>
        <ul>
            <li>Instantiate prefab</li> 
            <li>Load prefab from content</li> 
            <li>Parent prefab entity</li> 
        </ul>
    </div>
    ](instantiating-prefabs.md) 
</div>
