en/contributors/website/content-shortcodes-and-includes.md, before:

# Shortcodes and Includes

You can see examples here https://www.stride3d.net/blog/examples/.

## Alert

To add an alert, use the following `include`, where:

- `type` is one of the following: `primary`, `secondary`, `success`, `danger`, `warning`, `info`, `light`, `dark`. Using these types will automatically include a relevant icon
- `icon` is a Font Awesome icon, which is optional. You can use any free icon, e.g., fa-check.
- `title` is the title of the alert

```liquid
# This will render as a green box without the icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' icon:'' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}

# This will render as a green box with a check icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}

# This will render as a green box with a custom icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' icon:'fa-face-smile' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}
```

## Alert Banner

A global alert banner can be used for promotional purposes. The banner can be activated in `site.json`.

```json
"alert-banner": true
```

The HTML can be updated in the `/_includes/alert-banner.html` file.

## Image

Add responsive images using shortcodes. Be sure to include a descriptive title, as it will improve your post's search engine visibility. Also, if possible, use the **webp** format for images, which can also be used for transparent images. This will improve the performance of your site.

To add a responsive image, use the following shortcode:

`{% img 'title' 'url' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image and `url` with the image URL. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid mb-2" loading="lazy" data-src="url">
```

To add a responsive image with a clickable link that opens the image in full size, use the following shortcode:

`{% img-click 'title' 'url' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image and `url` with the image URL. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<a href="url" title="title" class="mb-2"><img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid" loading="lazy" data-src="url"></a>
```

To add a responsive image with a clickable link that directs users to a custom destination, use the following shortcode:

`{% img-click 'title' 'url' 'destinationUrl' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image, `url` with the image URL, and `destinationUrl` with the target URL when the image is clicked. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<a href="destinationUrl" title="title" class="mb-2"><img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid" loading="lazy" data-src="url"></a>
```

## Video

We should consider hosting our videos on YouTube whenever possible. 

To embed a **YouTube video**, use the following shortcode:

`{% youtube 'id' %}`

Replace `id` with the YouTube video ID. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/id" title="YouTube video" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```

To embed a **YouTube playlist**, use the following shortcode:

`{% youtube-playlist 'id' %}`

Replace `id` with the YouTube playlist ID. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=id" title="YouTube video" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```

To embed a video hosted elsewhere, use the following shortcode:

### Hosting our own videos

`{% video 'url' %}`

Replace `url` with the video URL (e.g., .mp4 file). Make sure you have a matching .jpg file with the same name as the .mp4 file for the poster attribute. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<!-- jpgUrl = url.replace(".mp4", ".jpg") // make sure you have a pair .mp4 and .jpg -->
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><video autoplay loop class="responsive-video" poster="jpgUrl"><source src="url" type="video/mp4"></video></div>
```

### How to encode videos

Videos can be generated by many software in various formats & size, so they might end up being incompatible with web browsers or mobile, or simply be way too large.
It is better to stick to a format with low requirements such as H264 baseline profile (works almost everywhere).

To do so, process the file using [fmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html):

```
ffmpeg -i myvideo_original.mp4 -profile:v baseline -level 3.0 -an myvideo.mp4
```

Also, generate a static thumbnail so that people can preview it before downloading the video (very important on mobile):

ToDo: Check if webp can be generated from ffmpeg

```
ffmpeg -i myvideo.mp4 -vframes 1 -f image2 -y myvideo.jpg
```

ToDo: Maybe we could provide a simple tool to do that without using command line.

Commit message:

feat: Content improvements across website infrastructure docs

en/contributors/website/content-shortcodes-and-includes.md, after:

# Shortcodes and Includes

You can see examples here https://www.stride3d.net/blog/examples/.

## Alert

To add an alert, use the following `include`, where:

- `type` is one of the following: `primary`, `secondary`, `success`, `danger`, `warning`, `info`, `light`, `dark`. Using these types will automatically include a relevant icon
- `icon` is a Font Awesome icon, which is optional. You can use any free icon, e.g., fa-check.
- `title` is the title of the alert

```liquid
# This will render as a green box without the icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' icon:'' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}

# This will render as a green box with a check icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}

# This will render as a green box with a custom icon
{% include _alert.html type:'success' icon:'fa-face-smile' title:'No icon: Stride contributors are proud to announce a new release now running on .NET 6 supporting the latest C# 10.' %}
```

### Examples

See the examples [here](https://www.stride3d.net/blog/examples/#alert).

![Alert examples in the Stride website](media/alert-examples.jpg)

## Alert Banner

A global alert banner can be used for promotional purposes. The banner can be activated in `site.json`. It will show up on every single page.

```json
"alert-banner": true
```

The HTML can be updated in the `/_includes/alert-banner.html` file.

![Alert Banner examples in the Stride website](media/alert-banner-example.jpg)

## Image

Add responsive images using shortcodes. Be sure to include a descriptive title, as it will improve your post's search engine visibility. Also, if possible, use the **webp** format for images, which can also be used for transparent images. This will improve the performance of your site.

### img

To add a responsive image, use the following shortcode:

`{% img 'title' 'url' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image and `url` with the image URL. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid mb-2" loading="lazy" data-src="url">
```

### img-click

To add a responsive image with a clickable link that opens the image in full size, use the following shortcode:

`{% img-click 'title' 'url' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image and `url` with the image URL. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<a href="url" title="title" class="mb-2"><img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid" loading="lazy" data-src="url"></a>
```

To add a responsive image with a clickable link that directs users to a custom destination, use the following shortcode:

`{% img-click 'title' 'url' 'destinationUrl' %}`

Replace `title` with a descriptive title for the image, `url` with the image URL, and `destinationUrl` with the target URL when the image is clicked. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<a href="destinationUrl" title="title" class="mb-2"><img alt="title" src="url" class="img-fluid" loading="lazy" data-src="url"></a>
```

## Video

We should consider hosting our videos on YouTube whenever possible.

### youtube

To embed a **YouTube video**, use the following shortcode:

`{% youtube 'id' %}`

Replace `id` with the YouTube video ID. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/id" title="YouTube video" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```

### youtube-playlist

To embed a **YouTube playlist**, use the following shortcode:

`{% youtube-playlist 'id' %}`

Replace `id` with the YouTube playlist ID. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=id" title="YouTube video" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```

To embed a video hosted elsewhere, use the following shortcode:

### Hosting our own videos

`{% video 'url' %}`

Replace `url` with the video URL (e.g., .mp4 file). Make sure you have a matching .jpg file with the same name as the .mp4 file for the poster attribute. This shortcode renders as:

```html
<!-- jpgUrl = url.replace(".mp4", ".jpg") // make sure you have a pair .mp4 and .jpg -->
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9 mb-2"><video autoplay loop class="responsive-video" poster="jpgUrl"><source src="url" type="video/mp4"></video></div>
```

### How to encode videos

Videos can be generated by many software in various formats & size, so they might end up being incompatible with web browsers or mobile, or simply be way too large.
It is better to stick to a format with low requirements such as H264 baseline profile (works almost everywhere).

To do so, process the file using [fmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html):

```
ffmpeg -i myvideo_original.mp4 -profile:v baseline -level 3.0 -an myvideo.mp4
```

Also, generate a static thumbnail so that people can preview it before downloading the video (very important on mobile):

ToDo: Check if webp can be generated from ffmpeg

```
ffmpeg -i myvideo.mp4 -vframes 1 -f image2 -y myvideo.jpg
```

ToDo: Maybe we could provide a simple tool to do that without using command line.
