en/manual/physics/index.md, before:

# Bepu Physics

![Physics in Stride](media/physics-index-physics-in-stride.png)

> [!WARNING]
> These pages are being updated. [Bullet Physics](../physics-bullet/index.md) is being phased out. We no longer plan to support or expand its features as our focus shifts to Bepu Physics. We recommend transitioning to Bepu Physics for access to the latest updates and ongoing improvements.

Stride simulates real-world physics such as gravity and collisions. This section explains how physics components work, how to add them to your project, and how to use them with scripts.

## In this section

* [Colliders](colliders.md): Create physics by adding collider components to entities
    * [Static colliders](static-colliders.md): Colliders that don't move
    * [Rigidbodies](rigid-bodies.md): Moving objects, affected by gravity and collisions
    * [Kinematic rigidbodies](kinematic-rigid-bodies.md): Physics objects controlled by scripts
    * [Characters](characters.md): Colliders for characters (such as player characters and NPCs)
    * [Collider shapes](collider-shapes.md): Define the shape of collider components
    * [Triggers](triggers.md): Use triggers to detect passing objects
    * [Constraints](constraints.md): Create appealing and realistic physics
* [Raycasting](raycasting.md): Trace intersecting objects
* [Simulation](simulation.md): How Stride controls physics

### Tutorials

* [Create a bouncing ball](create-a-bouncing-ball.md): Use the static collider and rigidbody components to create a ball bouncing on a floor
* [Script a trigger](script-a-trigger.md): Create a trigger that doubles the size of a ball when the ball passes through it

## Additional physics resources

- Stride integrates the open-source [Bullet Physics](http://bulletphysics.org/wordpress/) engine. For comprehensive details, consult the [Bullet User Manual](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3/blob/master/docs/Bullet_User_Manual.pdf)
- For solutions on mitigating physics jitter, refer to our guide on [Fixing Physics Jitter](fix-physics-jitter.md)

Commit message:

docs: Update physics engine links to Bepu Physics

en/manual/physics/index.md, after:

# Bepu Physics

![Physics in Stride](media/physics-index-physics-in-stride.png)

> [!WARNING]
> These pages are being updated. [Bullet Physics](../physics-bullet/index.md) is being phased out. We no longer plan to support or expand its features as our focus shifts to Bepu Physics. We recommend transitioning to Bepu Physics for access to the latest updates and ongoing improvements.

Stride simulates real-world physics such as gravity and collisions. This section explains how physics components work, how to add them to your project, and how to use them with scripts.

## In this section

* [Colliders](colliders.md): Create physics by adding collider components to entities
    * [Static colliders](static-colliders.md): Colliders that don't move
    * [Rigidbodies](rigid-bodies.md): Moving objects, affected by gravity and collisions
    * [Kinematic rigidbodies](kinematic-rigid-bodies.md): Physics objects controlled by scripts
    * [Characters](characters.md): Colliders for characters (such as player characters and NPCs)
    * [Collider shapes](collider-shapes.md): Define the shape of collider components
    * [Triggers](triggers.md): Use triggers to detect passing objects
    * [Constraints](constraints.md): Create appealing and realistic physics
* [Raycasting](raycasting.md): Trace intersecting objects
* [Simulation](simulation.md): How Stride controls physics

### Tutorials

* [Create a bouncing ball](create-a-bouncing-ball.md): Use the static collider and rigidbody components to create a ball bouncing on a floor
* [Script a trigger](script-a-trigger.md): Create a trigger that doubles the size of a ball when the ball passes through it

## Additional physics resources

- Stride integrates the open-source [Bepu Physics engine](https://github.com/bepu/bepuphysics2). 
   - Explore the [official Bepu website](https://www.bepuentertainment.com/)
   - Watch demos on the [Bepu YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@bepu)
- For solutions on mitigating physics jitter, refer to our guide on [Fixing Physics Jitter](fix-physics-jitter.md)
